Climate variability and ballooning populations are putting unprecedented pressure on agricultural croplands and their water use, which are vital for ensuring global food and water security in the twenty-first century. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic, military conflicts, and changing diets have added to looming global food insecurity. Therefore, there is a critical need to produce consistent and accurate global cropland products at fine spatial resolution (e.g., farm-scale, 30m or better), which are generated consistently, accurately, and routinely (e.g., every year). In this regard, we produced the world's first Landsat-derived global cropland extent product @ 30m (GCEP30) (Thenkabail et al., 2021; download @ LP DAAC) funded by NASA MEASURES 2012. The high impact of our previously-funded NASA GFSAD products such as Landsat 30m GCEP30, 1km cropland dominance, and Ikm irrigated versus rainfed is demonstrated by the use of these data by 126 countries during 2018-2021 (97 countries in 2021 alone), continued average downloads every month by about 20 countries, publication of 11 key peer-reviewed articles which already have 1276 citations in a short time-period (2017-present), and use for a wide range of applications (see Section 2.0). 

Therefore, the overarching goal of this continuity NASA MEASURES proposal is to develop a comprehensive global food security-support analysis data (GFSAD) project that will produce multiple cropland models, maps, and monitoring tools leading to a wide array of products using machine learning algorithms (MLAs), and satellite sensor big-data analytics through cloud- computing. In this new GFSAD project, we focus on producing four distinct Landsat-derived global cropland products for the years 2020 and 2025: 

1. Global Cropland Extent Product @ 30m (LGCEP30-2020, LGCEP30-2025). 
2. Global Rainfed and Irrigated Product @ 30m (LGRIP30-2020, LGRIP30-2025). 
3. Global Cropping Intensity Product @ 30m (LGCIP30-2020 & LGRIP30-2025) & 
4. Global Crop Type Product @ 30m for USA, Canada, and India (LGCTY30- 2020USACAN, LGCTY30-2025USACAN; LGCTY30-2020India, LGCTY30-2025India).   

The study will make use of Landsat-8, 9, and Sentinel-2A&2B surface reflectance products already available in the Google Earth Engine (GEE) cloud, and NASA's Harmonized Landsat Sentinel-2 (HLS) Landsat derived product (HLSL30) for 2013-present and Sentinel-2 derived product (HLSS30) for 2015-present, that together have sub-5-day global coverage at nominal 30m resolution. The four cropland products will be generated using 14 mature MLAs that the team has extensive experience with such as random forest, support vector machines, decision trees, and spectral matching techniques (e.g., Thenkabail et al., 2021, Oliphant et al., 2019, Teluguntla et al., 2018, 2015, Xiong et al., 2017a, Thenkabail et al., 2012, 2009, 2007, 2005) as outlined in the methods section, utilizing GEE and or other cloud platforms. 

All crop products will be evaluated for accuracies, errors, and uncertainties using various datasets such as ~ 112,000 points in the global cropland reference dataset;_cropland data from USDA CDL, Agri-Food Canada (AAFC) Canada, ground data for various countries through the CGIAR global network such as the ICRISAT, ICRAF, and IITA, country-wise irrigated and rainfed statistics of UN FAO through University of Goettingen (Dr. Stefan Siebert), an additional ~250,000 samples to be taken during the project period using our ground data Mobile App, country-wide reference maps, and sub-meter to 5m very-high-resolution-imagery (VHRI) from the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) available to USGS. 

GFSAD will make significant contributions to the Earth System Data Records (ESDRs) including Climate Data Records (CDRs), the Group on Earth Observations Agriculture and Water Societal Beneficial Areas (GEO SBAS), and the GEO Global Agricultural Monitoring (GEOGLAM). All data will be released through NASA's LP DAAC like our earlier GFSAD releases. 
